
Most immediate usability necessities:
 ☐ Some documentation, both user and technical
 ☐ Automatic launching on host OS login
 ☐ Public/friends-only choices on profile items
 ☐ Profile picture
 ☐ Log window for log display in real-time.

Larger features planned:
 ☐ Integration with UIA - personal device cluster management, etc.
 ☐ Secure VNC-like remote desktop access

Chat synchronization:
 ☐ Save/load chat history, how to synchronize history between devices?
   ✔ Save history locally @done (12-11-04 00:33)
   ☐ Load history locally
   ☐ Sync history between instances
     Message has a timestamp, originator and the target chat. Synchronize based on that. Chat should pull non-existant entries
     once activated. How to track joins/leaves (+ history available to new joiners)?
     (unread, originator, timestamp, target, msg_hash) - tuple for syncing messages.
     Unread is not synced, it is implicitly 1 for synced messages. Actually, it can be synced, for example
     if the chat was already read on a device, then unread=0 may be synced).
     (originator_user, originator_eid, originator_timestamp) - to track source of the message.
     (rx_timestamp) - to measure interdevice synchronization time.
     (chat_id) - a hashed concatenation of originator and receiver ids plus, perhaps, some nonce.
 ☐ Draw possible chat synchronization graph ideas between Alice's and Bob's personal cluser devices.
 ✔ Add Metakit in distribution. @done (12-10-30 10:52)
     metakit could be used as storage for message view (easier to experiment - we only need a hashed view).
 ☐ Group chat.
 ☐ Chat join urls like nstchat://authblob or nst://chat?authblob

File synchronization:
 ☐ Bandwidth indicator during downloads
 ☐ Show file transfer progress on both sending and receiving sides. Also inside chat.
 ☐ Make ongoing downloads automatically persist across restarts
 ☐ Watch Files directory for new files and file changes (QFileSystemWatcher)
 ☐ Initiate file resync operation when change is detected.
     Should work pretty much like file transfer, just the file save locations are predefined.

Voice and video communication:
 ☐ Indicator showing when audio is being received, and from whom.
 ✔ ALSA backend for Linux and/or upgrade to PortAudio V19 @done (12-10-26 01:19)
 ✔ Make configure script detect absence of OSS, disable audio on Unix @done (12-10-26 01:19)
 ☐ Event bells/notifications: friend online, chat/talk started, etc.
